# 3. Creating repositories: init 创建仓库：init

Obviously, the first Git command in chronological *and* logical order is
`git init`, so we’ll begin by creating `wyag init`. To achieve this,
we’re going to first need some very basic repository abstraction.

显然，按照时间顺序和逻辑顺序，第一个 Git 命令是 `git init`，所以我们将首先创建 `wyag init`。为此，我们需要一些非常基础的仓库抽象。

## 3.1. The Repository object 仓库对象

Obviously, the first Git command in chronological *and* logical order is
`git init`, so we’ll begin by creating `wyag init`. To achieve this,
we’re going to first need some very basic repository abstraction.

显然，我们需要对仓库的抽象：几乎每次运行 Git 命令时，我们都是在尝试对某个仓库进行操作，创建、读取或修改。

A git repository is made of two things: a “work tree”, where the files
meant to be in version control live, and a “git directory”, where Git
stores its own data. In most cases, the worktree is a regular directory
and the git directory is a child directory of the worktree, called
`.git`.

Git 仓库由两部分组成：一个是“工作区（work tree）”，其中存放要进行版本控制的文件，另一个是“Git 目录（git directory）”，Git 在这里存储自己的数据。在大多数情况下，工作区是一个常规目录，而 Git 目录是工作区的一个子目录，名为 `.git`。

Git supports *much more* cases (bare repo, separated gitdir, etc) but we
won’t need them: we’ll stick to the basic approach of `worktree/.git`.
Our repository object will then just hold two paths: the worktree and
the gitdir.

Git 支持*更多*的情况（裸仓库、分离的 Git 目录 等），但我们不需要这些：我们将坚持使用基本的 `worktree/.git` 方法。我们的仓库对象将仅包含两个路径：工作区和 Git 目录。

To create a new `Repository` object, we only need to make a few checks:

要创建一个新的 `Repository` 对象，我们只需进行一些检查：

  - We must verify that the directory exists, and contains a
    subdirectory called `.git`.
  - 我们必须验证该目录是否存在，并且包含一个名为 `.git` 的子目录。
  - We read its configuration in `.git/config` (it’s just an INI file)
    and control that `core.repositoryformatversion` is 0. More on that
    field in a moment.
  - 我们读取 `.git/config` 中的配置（这只是一个 INI 文件），并确保 `core.repositoryformatversion` 为 0。稍后我们会详细讨论这个字段。

The constructor takes an optional `force` which disables all checks.
That’s because the `repo_create()` function which we’ll create later
uses a `Repository` object to *create* the repo. So we need a way to
create repository even from (still) invalid filesystem locations.

构造函数接受一个可选的 `force` 参数，用于禁用所有检查。这是因为稍后我们将创建的 `repo_create()` 函数使用 `Repository` 对象来*创建*仓库。因此，我们需要一种方法，即使在（仍然）无效的文件系统位置，也能创建仓库。

```python
class GitRepository (object):
    """A git repository"""
    """一个 Git 仓库"""

    worktree = None
    gitdir = None
    conf = None

    def __init__(self, path, force=False):
        self.worktree = path
        self.gitdir = os.path.join(path, ".git")

        if not (force or os.path.isdir(self.gitdir)):
            raise Exception("Not a Git repository %s" % path)

        # 读取 .git/config 中的配置文件
        self.conf = configparser.ConfigParser()
        cf = repo_file(self, "config")

        if cf and os.path.exists(cf):
            self.conf.read([cf])
        elif not force:
            raise Exception("Configuration file missing")

        if not force:
            vers = int(self.conf.get("core", "repositoryformatversion"))
            if vers != 0:
                raise Exception("Unsupported repositoryformatversion %s" % vers)
```

We’re going to be manipulating **lots** of paths in repositories. We may
as well create a few utility functions to compute those paths and create
missing directory structures if needed. First, just a general path
building function:

我们将会在仓库中处理**大量**的路径。不妨创建一些工具函数来计算这些路径，并在需要时创建缺失的目录结构。首先，我们先写一个通用的路径构建函数：

```python
def repo_path(repo, *path):
    """Compute path under repo's gitdir."""
    return os.path.join(repo.gitdir, *path)
```

(A note on Python syntax: the star on the `*path` makes the function
variadic, so it can be called with multiple path components as separate
arguments. For example, `repo_path(repo, "objects", "df",
"4ec9fc2ad990cb9da906a95a6eda6627d7b7b0")` is a valid call. The function
receives `path` as a list)

（关于 Python 语法的一点说明：`*path` 前的星号使得函数具有可变参数特性，因此可以将多个路径组件作为单独的参数调用。例如，`repo_path(repo, "objects", "df", "4ec9fc2ad990cb9da906a95a6eda6627d7b7b0")` 是一个有效的调用。函数接收到的 `path` 是一个列表。）

The next two functions, `repo_file()` and `repo_dir()`, return and
optionally create a path to a file or a directory, respectively. The
difference between them is that the file version only creates
directories up to the last component.

接下来的两个函数，`repo_file()` 和 `repo_dir()`，分别返回并可选地创建指向文件或目录的路径。它们之间的区别在于，文件版本只会创建到最后一个组件的目录。

```python
def repo_file(repo, *path, mkdir=False):
    """Same as repo_path, but create dirname(*path) if absent.  For
example, repo_file(r, \"refs\", \"remotes\", \"origin\", \"HEAD\") will create
.git/refs/remotes/origin."""

    if repo_dir(repo, *path[:-1], mkdir=mkdir):
        return repo_path(repo, *path)

def repo_dir(repo, *path, mkdir=False):
    """Same as repo_path, but mkdir *path if absent if mkdir."""

    path = repo_path(repo, *path)

    if os.path.exists(path):
        if (os.path.isdir(path)):
            return path
        else:
            raise Exception("Not a directory %s" % path)

    if mkdir:
        os.makedirs(path)
        return path
    else:
        return None
```

(Second and last note on syntax: because the star in `*path` makes the
functions variadic, the `mkdir` argument must be passed explicitly by
name. For example, `repo_file(repo, "objects", mkdir=True)`.)

（关于语法的第二个也是最后一个说明：由于 `*path` 中的星号使得函数具有可变参数特性，因此 `mkdir` 参数必须通过名称显式传递。例如，`repo_file(repo, "objects", mkdir=True)`。）

To **create** a new repository, we start with a directory (which we
create if doesn’t already exist) and create the **git directory** inside
(which must not exist already, or be empty). That directory is called
`.git` (the leading period makes it “hidden” on Unix systems), and
contains:

要 **创建** 一个新的仓库，我们从一个目录开始（如果该目录尚不存在则创建），然后在其中创建 **git 目录**（该目录必须尚不存在，或者为空）。这个目录名为 `.git`（前面的点使其在 Unix 系统上被视为“隐藏”），并包含：

  - `.git/objects/` : the object store, which we’ll introduce [in the
    next section](#objects).
  - `.git/objects/` : 对象存储，我们将在 [下一节](#objects) 中介绍。
  - `.git/refs/` the reference store, which we’ll discuss [a bit
    later](#cmd-show-ref). It contains two subdirectories, `heads` and
    `tags`.
  - `.git/refs/` : 引用存储，我们稍后会讨论 [更多内容](#cmd-show-ref)。它包含两个子目录，`heads` 和 `tags`。
  - `.git/HEAD`, a reference to the current HEAD (more on that later\!)
  - `.git/HEAD` : 当前 HEAD 的引用（稍后会详细介绍！）
  - `.git/config`, the repository’s configuration file.
  - `.git/config` : 仓库的配置文件。
  - `.git/description`, holds a free-form description of this
    repository’s contents, for humans, and is rarely used.
  - `.git/description` : 包含该仓库内容的自由格式描述，供人类阅读，且很少使用。

<!-- end list -->

```python
def repo_create(path):
    """Create a new repository at path."""

    repo = GitRepository(path, True)

    # First, we make sure the path either doesn't exist or is an
    # empty dir.

    if os.path.exists(repo.worktree):
        if not os.path.isdir(repo.worktree):
            raise Exception ("%s is not a directory!" % path)
        if os.path.exists(repo.gitdir) and os.listdir(repo.gitdir):
            raise Exception("%s is not empty!" % path)
    else:
        os.makedirs(repo.worktree)

    assert repo_dir(repo, "branches", mkdir=True)
    assert repo_dir(repo, "objects", mkdir=True)
    assert repo_dir(repo, "refs", "tags", mkdir=True)
    assert repo_dir(repo, "refs", "heads", mkdir=True)

    # .git/description
    with open(repo_file(repo, "description"), "w") as f:
        f.write("Unnamed repository; edit this file 'description' to name the repository.\n")

    # .git/HEAD
    with open(repo_file(repo, "HEAD"), "w") as f:
        f.write("ref: refs/heads/master\n")

    with open(repo_file(repo, "config"), "w") as f:
        config = repo_default_config()
        config.write(f)

    return repo
```

The configuration file is very simple, it’s a
[INI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file)-like file with a single
section (`[core]`) and three fields:

配置文件非常简单，它是一个类似于 [INI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file) 的文件，包含一个部分（`[core]`）和三个字段：

  - `repositoryformatversion = 0`: the version of the gitdir format. 0
    means the initial format, 1 the same with extensions. If \> 1, git
    will panic; wyag will only accept 0.
  - `repositoryformatversion = 0`：gitdir 格式的版本。0 表示初始格式，1 表示相同格式但带有扩展。如果大于 1，git 将会崩溃；wyag 只接受 0。
  - `filemode = false`: disable tracking of file modes (permissions)
    changes in the work tree.
  - `filemode = false`：禁用对工作区中文件模式（权限）更改的跟踪。
  - `bare = false`: indicates that this repository has a worktree. Git
    supports an optional `worktree` key which indicates the location of
    the worktree, if not `..`; wyag doesn’t.
  - `bare = false`：表示该仓库有一个工作区。Git 支持一个可选的 `worktree` 键，用于指示工作区的位置，如果不是 `..`；而 wyag 不支持这个。

We create this file using Python’s `configparser` lib:

我们使用 Python 的 `configparser` 库来创建这个文件：

```python
def repo_default_config():
    ret = configparser.ConfigParser()

    ret.add_section("core")
    ret.set("core", "repositoryformatversion", "0")
    ret.set("core", "filemode", "false")
    ret.set("core", "bare", "false")

    return ret
```

## 3.2. The init command | init 命令

Now that we have code to read and create repositories, let’s make this
code usable from the command line by creating the `wyag init` command.
`wyag init` behaves just like `git init` — with much less
customizability, of course. The syntax of `wyag init` is going to be:

现在我们有了读取和创建仓库的代码，让我们通过创建 `wyag init` 命令来使这些代码可以从命令行使用。`wyag init` 的行为与 `git init` 一样——当然，定制化程度要低得多。`wyag init` 的语法如下：

```txt
wyag init [path]
```

We already have the complete repository creation logic. To create the
command, we’re only going to need two more things:

我们已经有了完整的仓库创建逻辑。要创建这个命令，我们只需要再添加两件事：

1.  We need to create an argparse subparser to handle our command’s
    argument.

1. 我们需要创建一个 argparse 子解析器来处理我们命令的参数。

    ```python
    argsp = argsubparsers.add_parser("init", help="初始化一个新的空仓库。")
    ```

    In the case of `init`, there’s a single, optional, positional
    argument: the path where to init the repo. It defaults to `.`, the
    current directory:

    在 `init` 的情况下，有一个单独的可选位置参数：初始化仓库的路径。默认值为当前目录 `.`：

    ```python
    argsp.add_argument("path",
                       metavar="directory",
                       nargs="?",
                       default=".",
                       help="仓库创建的路径。")
    ```

2.  We also need a “bridge” function that will read argument values from
    the object returned by argparse and call the actual function with
    correct values.

2. 我们还需要一个“桥接”函数，该函数将从 argparse 返回的对象中读取参数值，并使用正确的值调用实际函数。

    ```python
    def cmd_init(args):
        repo_create(args.path)
    ```

And we’re done\! If you’ve followed these steps, you should now be able
to `wyag init` a git repository anywhere:

就这样完成了！如果你按照这些步骤操作，现在应该能够在任何地方执行 `wyag init` 来创建一个 Git 仓库：

```txt
$ wyag init test
```

（`wyag` 可执行文件通常不在你的 `$PATH` 中：你需要使用完整名称调用它，例如 `~/projects/wyag/wyag init .`）

## 3.3. The repo\_find() function | repo_find() 函数

While we’re implementing repositories, we’re going to need a function to
find the root of the current repository. We’ll use it a lot, since
almost all Git functions work on an existing repository (except `init`,
of course\!). Sometimes that root is the current directory, but it may
also be a parent: your repository’s root may be in
`~/Documents/MyProject`, but you may currently be working in
`~/Documents/MyProject/src/tui/frames/mainview/`. The `repo_find()`
function we’ll now create will look for that root, starting at the
current directory and recursing back to `/`. To identify a path as a
repository, it will check for the presence of a `.git` directory.

在我们实现仓库的过程中，我们需要一个函数来找到当前仓库的根目录。我们会频繁使用这个函数，因为几乎所有的 Git 功能都在现有的仓库上工作（当然，`init` 除外！）。有时这个根目录是当前目录，但也可能是父目录：你的仓库根目录可能在 `~/Documents/MyProject`，而你当前可能在 `~/Documents/MyProject/src/tui/frames/mainview/` 工作。我们现在要创建的 `repo_find()` 函数将从当前目录开始查找根目录，并递归向上直到 `/`。为了识别一个路径是否为仓库，它将检查 `.git` 目录是否存在。

``` python
def repo_find(path=".", required=True):
    path = os.path.realpath(path)

    if os.path.isdir(os.path.join(path, ".git")):
        return GitRepository(path)

    # If we haven't returned, recurse in parent, if w
    parent = os.path.realpath(os.path.join(path, ".."))

    if parent == path:
        # Bottom case
        # os.path.join("/", "..") == "/":
        # If parent==path, then path is root.
        if required:
            raise Exception("No git directory.")
        else:
            return None

    # Recursive case
    return repo_find(parent, required)
```

```python
def repo_find(path=".", required=True):
    path = os.path.realpath(path)

    if os.path.isdir(os.path.join(path, ".git")):
        return GitRepository(path)

    # 如果没有返回，递归查找父目录
    parent = os.path.realpath(os.path.join(path, ".."))

    if parent == path:
        # 底部情况
        # os.path.join("/", "..") == "/":
        # 如果 parent==path，那么 path 就是根目录。
        if required:
            raise Exception("没有 git 目录。")
        else:
            return None

    # 递归情况
    return repo_find(parent, required)
```

And we’re done with repositories\!

仓库的部分就完成了！

